Afghanistan
------------
CricViz win probability: 1%
The statistics paint a mixed picture for Afghanistan between bat and ball.
They have a bowling economy rate of 7 in the last 10 overs since the last World Cup, the best of any full member nation. However, they have only scored at 7 in the last 10 overs in the same timeframe - the lowest of any full member nation.
Crucial player: Rashid Khan
No bowler has more wickets in the Indian Premier League than Rashid Khan's 139 since the leg-spinner made his debut in the competition in 2017.

Australia
------------
CricViz win probability: 16%
Five-time winners Australia have great batting depth - Cameron Green could bat as low as eight in a squad packed full of all-rounders. But they are short in the spin department, with Ashton Agar's injury meaning Adam Zampa is the sole spinner in the squad.
Crucial player: Glenn Maxwell
The powerful all-rounder averages 37 and has a strike-rate of 180 in overs 41-50 since the last World Cup - and his off-spin will be needed too.

Bangladesh
------------
CricViz win probability: 3%
Since the last World Cup, Bangladesh have a strong home record (16 wins, nine defeats) but have been less convincing away from home (nine wins, 12 defeats). They will also be unfamiliar with conditions - Bangladesh have only ever played nine one-day internationals in India, and none since 2006.
Crucial player: Shakib Al-Hasan
The Bangladesh captain was one of only three players to score more than 600 runs in the 2019 World Cup, alongside Rohit Sharma and David Warner.

England
------------
CricViz win probability: 17%
England have a catch success rate of 84% in one-day internationals since the last World Cup, the highest of all 10 teams competing in this tournament.
But with the bat, the end of the Jason Roy-Jonny Bairstow opening partnership has seen a drop-off in their powerplay scoring rate. In 2023, they have scored at 5 runs per over in the first 10 overs, their lowest since 2014.
Crucial player: Ben Stokes
The talismanic all-rounder has finished not out in 13 of the 34 one-day international run chases he has featured in since 2015.






